
[#ns Terms of Service — NCharacter.ai Terms of Service — NCharacter.ai Last updated
June 21, 2023 Welcome to NCharacter.ai (" we ", " us " or "
our "). We aim to create new ways for people to express their emotions through the AI chat. These Terms of Use (these " Terms ") apply to all users and others who download, install, register with, access or use ("
Use " and " Users ", " you ", as applicable) our mobile application NCharacter.ai (" NCharacter.ai " or " application "). By downloading NCharacter.ai, you indicate that You agree to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, and that You accept this License Agreement. App Store and Play Store are referred to in this License Agreement as "Service" you agree to these Terms. If you do not agree to these Terms, do not Use this app. NCharacter.ai when purchased or downloaded through the Services, is licensed to You for use only under the terms of this License Agreement. The Licensor reserves all rights not expressly granted to You. NCharacter.ai is to be used on devices that operate with Apple's operating systems ("iOS" and "Mac OS") or Google's operating system ("Android"). 1. THE APPLICATION NCharacter.ai (" Licensed Application ") is a piece of software created to Provide an AI chatbot experience — and customized for iOS and Android mobile devices (" Devices "). It is used to Send messages to AI bots. The Licensed Application is not tailored to comply with industry-specific regulations (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), etc.), so if your interactions would be subjected to such laws, you may not use this Licensed Application. You may not use the Licensed Application in a way that would violate the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA). 2. AGE To use this app, you must be 18 or older. 3. SCOPE OF LICENSE 3.1 You are given a non-transferable, non-exclusive, non-sublicensable license to install and use the Licensed Application on any Devices that You (End-User) own or control and as permitted by the Usage Rules, with the exception that such Licensed Application may be accessed and used by other accounts associated with You (End-User, The Purchaser) via Family Sharing or volume purchasing. 3.2 This license will also govern any updates of the Licensed Application provided by Licensor that replace, repair, and/or supplement the first Licensed Application, unless a separate license is provided for such update, in which case the terms of that new license will govern. 3.3 You may not share or make the Licensed Application available to third parties (unless to the degree allowed by the Usage Rules, and with our prior written consent), sell, rent, lend, lease or otherwise redistribute the Licensed Application. 3.4 You may not reverse engineer, translate, disassemble, integrate, decompile, remove, modify, combine, create derivative works or updates of, adapt, or attempt to derive the source code of the Licensed Application, or any part thereof (except with our prior written consent). 3.5 You may not copy (excluding when expressly authorized by this license and the Usage Rules) or alter the Licensed Application or portions thereof. You may create and store copies only on devices that You own or control for backup keeping under the terms of this license, the Usage Rules, and any other terms and conditions that apply to the device or software used. You may not remove any intellectual property notices. You acknowledge that no unauthorized third parties may gain access to these copies at any time. If you sell your Devices to a third party, you must remove the Licensed Application from the Devices before doing so. 3.6 Violations of the obligations mentioned above, as well as the attempt of such infringement, may be subject to prosecution and damages. 3.7 Licensor reserves the right to modify the terms and conditions of licensing. 3.8 Nothing in this license should be interpreted to restrict third-party terms. When using the Licensed Application, You must ensure that You comply with applicable third-party terms and conditions. 4. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 4.1 Licensor attempts to keep the Licensed Application updated so that it complies with modified/new versions of the firmware and new hardware. You are not granted rights to claim such an update. 4.2 You acknowledge that it is Your responsibility to confirm and determine that the app end-user device on which You intend to use the Licensed Application satisfies the technical specifications mentioned above. 4.3 Licensor reserves the right to modify the technical specifications as it sees appropriate at any time. 5. USE OF DATA You acknowledge that Licensor will be able to access and adjust Your downloaded Licensed Application content and Your personal information, and that Licensor's use of such material and information is subject to Your legal agreements with Licensor and Licensor's privacy policy.] You acknowledge that the Licensor may periodically [#a collect] and [#a use] technical data and related [#dt information about your device], system, and application software, and peripherals, [#p(functionality) offer product support, facilitate the software updates, and for [#p(functionality) purposes of providing other services] to you (if any) related to the Licensed Application. Licensor may also use this information to improve its products or to provide services or technologies to you, as long as it is in a form that does not personally identify you. 6. USER-GENERATED CONTRIBUTIONS The Licensed Application may invite you to chat, contribute to, or participate in blogs, message boards, online forums, and other functionality, and may provide you with the opportunity to create, submit, post, display, transmit, perform, publish, distribute, or broadcast content and materials to us or in the Licensed Application, including but not limited to text, writings, video, audio, photographs, graphics, comments, suggestions, or personal information or other material (collectively, "Contributions"). Contributions may be viewable by other users of the Licensed Application and through third-party websites or applications. As such, any Contributions you transmit may be treated as non-confidential and non-proprietary. When you create or make available any Contributions, you thereby represent and warrant that: 6.1 The creation, distribution, transmission, public display, or performance, and the accessing, downloading, or copying of your Contributions do not and will not infringe the proprietary rights, [#ns including but not limited to the copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret, or moral rights of any third party. 6.2 You are the creator and owner of or have the necessary licenses, rights, consents, releases, and permissions to use and to authorize us, the Licensed Application, and other users of the Licensed Application to use your Contributions in any manner contemplated by the Licensed Application and this License Agreement. 6.3 You have the written consent, release, and/or permission of each and every identifiable individual person in your Contributions to use the name or likeness or each and every such identifiable individual person to enable inclusion and use of your Contributions in any manner contemplated by the Licensed Application and this License Agreement. 6.4 Your Contributions are not false, inaccurate, or misleading. 6.5 Your Contributions are not unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, pyramid schemes, chain letters, spam, mass mailings, or other forms of solicitation. 6.6 Your Contributions are not obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, violent, harassing, libelous, slanderous, or otherwise objectionable (as determined by us). 6.7 Your Contributions do not ridicule, mock, disparage, intimidate, or abuse anyone. 6.8 Your Contributions are not used to harass or threaten (in the legal sense of those terms) any other person and to promote violence against a specific person or class of people. 6.9 Your Contributions do not violate any applicable law, regulation, or rule. 6.10 Your Contributions do not violate the privacy or publicity rights of any third party. 6.11 Your Contributions do not violate any applicable law concerning child pornography, or otherwise intended to protect the health or well-being of minors. 6.12 Your Contributions do not include any offensive comments that are connected to race, national origin, gender, sexual preference, or physical handicap. 6.13 Your Contributions do not otherwise violate, or link to material that violates, any provision of this License Agreement, or any applicable law or regulation. Any use of the Licensed Application in violation of the foregoing violates this License Agreement and may result in, among other things, termination or suspension of your rights to use the Licensed Application. 7. CONTRIBUTION LICENSE By posting your Contributions to any part of the Licensed Application or making Contributions accessible to the Licensed Application by linking your account from the Licensed Application to any of your social networking accounts, you automatically grant, and you represent and warrant that you have the right to grant, to us an unrestricted, unlimited, irrevocable, perpetual, non-exclusive, transferable, royalty-free, fully-paid, worldwide right, and license to host, use copy, reproduce, disclose, sell, resell, publish, broad cast, retitle, archive, store, cache, publicly display, reformat, translate, transmit, excerpt (in whole or in part), and distribute such Contributions (including, without limitation, your image and voice) for any purpose, commercial advertising, or otherwise, and to prepare derivative works of, or incorporate in other works, such as Contributions, and grant and authorize sublicenses of the foregoing. The use and distribution may occur in any media formats and through any media channels. This license will apply to any form, media, or technology now known or hereafter developed, and includes our use of your name, company name, and franchise name, as applicable, and any of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, logos, and personal and commercial images you provide. You waive all moral rights in your Contributions, and you warrant that moral rights have not otherwise been asserted in your Contributions. We do not assert any ownership over your Contributions. You retain full ownership of all of your Contributions and any intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights associated with your Contributions. We are not liable for any statements or representations in your Contributions provided by you in any area in the Licensed Application. You are solely responsible for your Contributions to the Licensed Application and you expressly agree to exonerate us from any and all responsibility and to refrain from any legal action against us regarding your Contributions. We have the right, in our sole and absolute discretion, (1) to edit, redact, or otherwise change any Contributions; (2) to recategorize any Contributions to place them in more appropriate locations in the Licensed Application; and (3) to prescreen or delete any Contributions at any time and for any reason, without notice. We have no obligation to monitor your Contributions. 8. LIABILITY 8.1 Licensor's responsibility in the case of violation of obligations and tort shall be limited to intent and gross negligence. Only in case of a breach of essential contractual duties (cardinal obligations), Licensor shall also be liable in case of slight negligence. In any case, liability shall be limited to the foreseeable, contractually typical damages. The limitation mentioned above does not apply to injuries to life, limb, or health. 8.2 Licensor takes no accountability or responsibility for any damages caused due to a breach of duties according to Section 3 of this License Agreement. To avoid data loss, You are required to make use of backup functions of the Licensed Application to the extent allowed by applicable third-party terms and conditions of use. You are aware that in case of alterations or manipulations of the Licensed Application, You will not have access to the Licensed Application. 9. WARRANTY 9.1 Licensor warrants that the Licensed Application is free of spyware, trojan horses, viruses, or any other malware at the time of Your download. Licensor warrants that the Licensed Application works as described in the user documentation. 9.2 No warranty is provided for the Licensed Application that is not executable on the device, that has been unauthorizedly modified, handled inappropriately or culpably, combined or installed with inappropriate hardware or software, used with inappropriate accessories, regardless if by Yourself or by third parties, or if there are any other reasons outside of our sphere of influence that affect the executability of the Licensed Application. 9.3 If we confirm that the Licensed Application is defective, we reserve a choice to remedy the situation either by means of solving the defect or substitute delivery. 9.4 In the event of any failure of the Licensed Application to conform to any applicable warranty, You may notify the Services Store Operator, and Your Licensed Application purchase price will be refunded to You. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, the Services Store Operator will have no other warranty obligation whatsoever with respect to the Licensed Application, and any other losses, claims, damages, liabilities, expenses, and costs attributable to any negligence to adhere to any warranty. 9.5 If the user is an entrepreneur, any claim based on faults expires after a statutory period of limitation amounting to twelve (12) months after the Licensed Application was made available to the user. The statutory periods of limitation given by law apply for users who are consumers. 10. LEGAL COMPLIANCE You represent and warrant that You are not located in a country that is subject to a US Government embargo, or that has been designated by the US Government as a "terrorist supporting" country; and that You are not listed on any US Government list of prohibited or restricted parties. 11. TERMINATION The license is valid until terminated by Us or by You. Your rights under this license will terminate automatically and without notice from us. if You fail to adhere to any term(s) of this license. Upon License termination, You shall stop all use of the Licensed Application, and destroy all copies, full or partial, of the Licensed Application. 12. THIRD-PARTY TERMS OF AGREEMENTS AND BENEFICIARY We represent and warrant that we will comply with applicable third-party terms of agreement when using Licensed Application. In Accordance with Section 9 of the "Instructions for Minimum Terms of Developer's End-User License Agreement," both Apple and Google and their subsidiaries shall be third-party beneficiaries of this End User License Agreement and — upon Your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, both Apple and Google will have the right (and will be deemed to have accepted the right) to enforce this End User License Agreement against You as a third-party beneficiary thereof. 13. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS We and the End-User acknowledge that, in the event of any third-party claim that the Licensed Application or the End-User's possession and use of that Licensed Application infringes on the third party's intellectual property rights, we, and not the Services, will be solely responsible for the investigation, defense, settlement, and discharge or any such intellectual property infringement claims. 14.MISCELLANEOUS 14.1 If any of the terms of this agreement should be or become invalid, the validity of the remaining provisions shall not be affected. Invalid terms will be replaced by valid ones formulated in a way that will achieve the primary purpose. 14.2 Collateral agreements, changes and amendments are only valid if laid down in writing. The preceding clause can only be waived in writing. 14.3 We have no tolerance for objectionable content or abusive users. Users posting objectionable content or being abusive may be banned from the app without prior notice. 15.SUBSCRIPTION 15.1 Subscription period The Service or some parts of the Service are available only with a paid Subscription. You will be billed in advance on a recurring and periodic basis (such as daily, weekly, monthly or annually), depending on the type of Subscription plan you select when purchasing the Subscription. At the end of each period, Your Subscription will automatically renew under the exact same conditions unless You cancel it. 15.2 Subscription cancellations You may cancel Your Subscription renewal through Your App Store or Google Play Account settings page. You will not receive a refund for the fees You already paid for Your current Subscription period and You will be able to access the Service until the end of Your current Subscription period. 15.3 Billing If the Subscription has been made through an In-app Purchase, all billing is handled by the Application Store and is governed by the Application Store's own terms and conditions. 15.4 Fee Changes NCharacter.ai, in its sole discretion and at any time, may modify the Subscription fees. Any Subscription fee change will become effective at the end of the then-current Subscription period. Your continued use of the Service after the Subscription fee change comes into effect constitutes Your agreement to pay the modified Subscription fee amount. 15.5 Refunds Paid Subscription fees are non-refundable. If the Subscription has been made through an In-app purchase, the Application Store refund policy will apply. If You wish to request a refund, You may do so by contacting the Application Store directly. 15.6 Free Trial NCharacter.ai may, at its sole discretion, offer a Subscription with a Free trial for a limited period of time. If your subscription includes a free trial service, on the last day of the Free Trial period, unless You cancel Your Subscription at least 24 hours before the end of the current period, You will be automatically charged the applicable Subscription fees for the type of Subscription You have selected. At any time and without notice, we reserves the right to (i) modify the terms and conditions of the Free Trial offer, or (ii) cancel such Free trial offer. 16.IN-APP PURCHASE The Application may include In-app Purchases that allow you to buy products, services or Subscriptions. More information about how you may be able to manage In-app Purchases using your Device may be set out in the Application Store's own terms and conditions or in your Device's Help settings. In-app Purchases can only be consumed within the Application. If you make a In-app Purchase, that In-app Purchase cannot be cancelled after you have initiated its download. In-app Purchases cannot be redeemed for cash or other consideration or otherwise transferred. If any In-app Purchase is not successfully downloaded or does not work once it has been successfully downloaded, we will, after becoming aware of the fault or being notified to the fault by You, investigate the reason for the fault. We will act reasonably in deciding whether to provide You with a replacement In-app Purchase or issue You with a patch to repair the fault. In no event will We charge You to replace or repair the In-app Purchase. In the unlikely event that we are unable to replace or repair the relevant In-app Purchase or are unable to do so within a reasonable period of time and without significant inconvenience to You, We will authorize the Application Store to refund You an amount up to the cost of the relevant In-app Purchase. Alternatively, if You wish to request a refund, You may do so by contacting the Application Store directly. You acknowledge and agree that all billing and transaction processes are handled by the Application Store from where you downloaded the Application and are governed by that Application Store's own terms and conditions. If you have any payment related issues with In-app Purchases, then you need to contact the Application Store directly. 17. GOVERNING LAW The laws of the country, excluding its conflicts of law rules, shall govern this Terms and Your use of the Service. Your use of the Application may also be subject to other local, state, national, or international laws. 18. DISPUTES RESOLUTION If You have any concern or dispute about the Service, You agree to first try to resolve the dispute informally by contacting Us. 19.FOR EUROPEAN UNION (EU) USERS If You are a European Union consumer, you will benefit from any mandatory provisions of the law of the country in which you are resident in. 20.UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT END USE PROVISIONS If You are a U.S. federal government end user, our Service is a "Commercial Item". 21.CHANGES TO THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS We reserve the right, at Our sole discretion, to modify or replace these Terms at any time. If a revision is material We will make reasonable efforts to provide at least 30 days' notice prior to any new terms taking effect. What constitutes a material change will be determined at Our sole discretion. By continuing to access or use Our Service after those revisions become effective, You agree to be bound by the revised terms. If You do not agree to the new terms, in whole or in part, please stop using the website and the Service. 22. CONTACT US If you have any questions about these Terms and Conditions, You can contact us: By email: contact@NCharacter.ai]


