5 Abstract
Limit as much as possible the detail in which personal data
is processed.
While ‘minimise’ forces one to decide whether or not to process a particular piece of personal data, ‘abstract’ addresses the more subtle question
of the level of detail in which to process personal data. The less detailed
a personal data item is, the more we ‘zoom out’, the lower the privacy
risk is.
5.1 Tactics
Processing personal data in less detail can be done both at the data subject
level as well as the attribute level. The following three tactics apply.
Summarise Summarise detailed attributes into more coarse-grained, general attributes. For example, use an age category instead of a birth
date, or a city of residence instead of a full address, whenever possible.
Group Aggregate information about a group of people instead of processing personal information for each person in the group separately. Compile group profiles with average information concerning
the members of the group.
Perturb Do not process the exact value of a personal data item. Instead
use an approximation of that value, or adjust the value with some
random noise. For example, instead of reporting the exact current
location of a person, report his location within some random distance from the real location.
Detailed information often becomes less relevant over time. Detailed logs
are necessary to act swiftly in case of a hack or a disruption, but after
some time only an aggregate overview of the total number of users of
a service (perhaps with some information about which specific parts of
the service were used) is still relevant. Be aware of this, and clean logs
accordingly.
10
Note that even group profiles pose a privacy risk when individuals can
easily be classified to belong to a particular group (such as people with a
certain medical condition, or with a certain financial risk profile).
5.2 Examples
In many cases (like special discounts for seniors or juniors, or rules that
require one to check whether someone is an adult) only age matters, and
not the particular date of birth. In these cases it suffices to record the
attribute “over eighteen” or “senior citizen”.
Smart meters are an example of a system that abstracts both over space
as well as over time. For the stability of the electrical grid detailed information on energy use of a single household is not relevant. It suffices to
monitor, in real time, energy use of a whole street or block of houses. To
determine the electricity bill it is not necessary to record the energy use
in real time. Instead it is sufficient to send the accumulated energy use
of say three months at a time to the energy supplier.
Homomorphic encryption allows one to perform calculations on encrypted
data without learning the real (unencrypted) data themselves. This allows
one party to compute the sum of a set of encrypted measurements. Another party can then decrypt this sum. At the same time no one learns
anything about the individual measurements.
Location-based services need the location of the user in order to show relevant information (like a nearby restaurant, for example). But depending
on the service this location does not have to be exact. Precise GPS coordinates are usually not necessary. Sometimes a coarse location rounded to
a square kilometre suffices, and sending all relevant data for that larger
area to the device. The more detailed information is filtered out locally.
This type of clustering or cloaking implements the k-anonymity principle.
This principle demands that the data is perturbed or cloaked in such a way
that it could apply to at least k different people, that are also represented
in the data set, or are using the service. In other words: apart from you,
the data could belong to at least k − 1 other people. In location based
services, k depends on the size of the area, and the average number of
people there.