8 Control
Provide data subjects adequate control over the processing
of their personal data.
Control is a fundamental principle to protect the privacy of users. The
main goal of privacy is not to totally prevent the processing and sharing
of personal data. Not at all! But users want to have control and have a
say in how their personal data is processed and shared.
8.1 Tactics
Users get control over the processing of their personal data through one
of the following tactics.
Consent Ask users explicit consent to the processing of their personal
data. Inform them beforehand exactly about which personal data
will be processed, how they will be processed and for which purpose (‘informed consent’, see also the inform strategy). It should
be possible to withdraw consent.
Choose Offer users a real choice: basic functionality should be accessible
for people who do not consent to the processing of their personal
data. Offer a (paid) alternative.
Update Offer users the means to review and update the personal data
collected about them. A logical approach is to combine this with
the approach that allows users to view the personal data collected
(e.g. through a dashboard).
Retract Offer users a means to retract (or to ask for the deletion of) their
personal information. Again, this can be part of a privacydashboard.
Consent is not always required when processing personal data, for example when you have a legitimate interest to process it. Always consult a
lawyer to make sure.
It is not always possible or even required to allow users to correct their
data or to delete their data when they ask you to. Sometimes personal
data are simply required to be retained. In medical records it is undesir16
able to allow patients to edit entries with medical significance.
8.2 Examples
In many cases processing personal data is simply allowed, for example
because they are strictly necessary to execute a contract (e.g. the postal
address is required when ordering something on-line) or because there
is a legal requirement to do so (e.g. banks verifying your identity). In
other cases consent is required. Inform users clearly about the purposes.
And offer them a real choice (so that they do get access even when they
do not agree, perhaps to a limited part of the service). Use opt-in (no
processing without prior consent) instead of opt-out (processing takes
places, unless consent is withdrawn at a later stage): the default choice
does not constitute consent. So don’t use pre-checked checkboxes to
subscribe people to newsletters, for example…
Websites have to ask permissions to place cookies. Many of the ‘accept
cookies’ notifications do not comply: they do not offer a real choice as the
website cannot be visited unless the cookie is accepted. A proper cookie
statement offers a real choice to accept cookies, and offers the option to
choose which cookies to accept or not (e.g. those needed for anonymous
website statistics, or those used to connect with social networks).
A radically different approach shifts the control of the personal data completely to the users themselves. Instead of organisations storing the personal data for all their customers, they ask their customers to each store
that data themselves. The organisations later access that information
through a standard interface, under the control of the user. This is sometimes called ‘customer managed relations’ as opposed to ‘customer relations management’.
