10 Demonstrate
Demonstrate you are processing personal data in a privacyfriendly way.
This strategy addresses the new requirement that organisations need to
demonstrate compliance to privacy regulations. The demonstrate strategy is externally oriented, towards the data protection authorities (possibly through the internal data protection officer).
10.1 Tactics
The following tactics help organisations to demonstrate compliance.
Record Document all (important) steps taken. Record decisions, and motivate them. Collect system logs (and respond to anomalies)1
.
Audit Audit the logs regularly, but audit also the organisational processes in general, and the way personal data is processed within
the organisation.
Report Report the results of such audits to the Data Protection Authority
(DPA), or keep them for later reference. Consult, when possible, the
DPA regularly.
Document extensively yet efficiently the ways in which the organisation
protects personal information. Do so in a surveyable and clarifying manner. Make sure that the documentation corresponds with reality. Get
certified.
10.2 Examples
Performing a data protection impact assessment (DPIA), and especially
recording the findings and properly documenting the decisions made
based on it, is a good starting point. A DPIA has to be performed when
personal will be processed. Sometimes a limited DPIA suffices. When
this indicates that significant privacy risks may arise, a full-fledged DPIA
1This tactic was called ‘log’ in earlier work.
20
must be performed. A DPIA must be repeated every once in a while as
circumstances may have changed.
Another approach is to get certified against an (internationally) recognised standard for privacy friendliness (like TRUSTe or EuroPriSe). Alternatively, a benchmark with other organisations that operate within the
same (business)sector could provide additional support for the privacy
maturity of your organisation.
Using formal methods and structured development environments when
developing new systems is an advantage.
