9 Enforce
Commit to processing personal data in a privacy-friendly
way, and adequately enforce this.
Privacy should not only be guaranteed through technical means, but also
through organisational means. It should be part of the organisational
culture and be propagated by higher management. Otherwise nobody
will feel responsible. A clear privacy policy will provide scope and guidance. The enforce strategy is internally oriented, towards the organisation itself. The strategy ensures that the externally communicated privacy
statement (see the inform strategy) is also enforced internally through a
privacy policy.
9.1 Tactics
Privacy-friendly processing is enforced by applying the following tactics.
Create The organisation should commit to privacy. Take responsibility.
Create a privacy policy. Assign resources to execute this policy.
Determine for each process the goal and the (legal) ground: is there
a legitimate interest, or is consent required? Be clear about the
business model.
Maintain Maintain the policy with all the necessary technical and organisational controls. Implement these controls. Assign responsibilities. Create an awareness campaign and train all personnel. Make
sure third parties (processors) also comply with the policy.
Uphold Circumstances change. Verify the privacy policy regularly, and
adjust its implementation whenever necessary. Establish prior criteria, and evaluate your policy against them.
The privacy policy should be aligned with the overall business plan and
mission statement of the organisation. Make sure it is consistent with all
other organisational policies.
18
9.2 Examples
One approach is to implement a privacy management system similar to
the plan-do-check-act cycle from the information security management
standard (ISO 27001). This could be integrated with the data protection
impact assessments that have to be performed anyway (and that are further discussed under the demonstrate strategy).
Another technical approach is the use of so called ’sticky policies’ that
are attached a data item to indicate the original purpose for which the
data item was collected, or to specify the processing that is allowed to be
performed on the data item. Processes in the organisation are set up in
such a way that for each data item the sticky policy associated with it is
automatically verified.
One could also consider the use of techniques that register ’unusual’ activity and that block access to data items when necessary, for example
when one person tries to access an unusual amount of data, or if significantly many people access a particular data item (for example the medical
records of a VIP).
Consideration should also be given to the system development processes
within your organisation. Adhere to the privacy by design philosophy,
and address privacy from the start. This little book helps you with that!
;-) If you do not develop your own systems, privacy by design thinking, and
in particular the use of the privacy design strategies, also helps setting
the requirements for products or services to be procured.
