7 Inform
i
Inform data subjects about the processing of their personal
data in a timely and adequate manner.
Transparency about which personal data is being processed, how they are
processed and for which purpose, is an essential prerequisite for better
privacy protection. It allows users to take informed decisions about using
a system and agreeing to the processing of their personal data (see also
the control strategy). Moreover it allows society at large to verify whether
organisations are processing our personal data responsibly. (“Sunlight is
said to be the best of disinfectants.”)
7.1 Tactics
Transparency can be achieved following these tactics.
Supply Supply information about which personal data is processed, how
they are processed, and why. Clearly specify how long personal
data is retained, and how it is deleted. List all third parties with
which you share this personal data, be clear about the conditions
that cover each third party data exchange, and specify how these
conditions are enforced. Put a link to your privacy policy on your
homepage, and in your app. Clearly indicate how people can get in
touch with questions about their privacy.
Explain Explain which personal data you process, and why. Argue why
this is necessary. Do this in a clear and easy to understand manner, even for a layperson. Target this information to different user
groups: novices, experts, the authorities. Consider using a layered
approach: first provide an overview, and provide links to more detailed information.
Notify Notify users (in real time) the moment you process their personal
data, share it with third parties, or as soon as you become aware of
a data leak. Prepare clear procedures for this. Make notifications
short but informative. Be sure not to notify too often. Allow users
to control for which events they wish to receive a notification.
14
Informing users about the processing of their personal data (through a
privacy statement) presupposes that there is a privacy policy in place
(see the enforce strategy) on which the processing is based. Moreover,
this information must be complete and up-to-date. This is harder than it
first appears.
Several years ago we, together with a few students, performed
an experiment to test data subject access rights. The results
were astounding. We received literally screenshots from databases. One student even got a phone call from the help desk of
his mobile phone company. The poor help desk person asked
him whether he really wanted to pursue his data subject access
request, as it would take hours if not days to complete. This is
what happens when you do not develop your system with such
access requests in mind.
7.2 Examples
The set of icons created by the Creative Commons can be used to summarise the copyrights associated with a particular document. Similarly,
privacy pictograms can communicate the essence of a privacy policy at
a glance. For example these icons could indicate which type of personal
data is processed, where they are processed, and whether they are shared
with third parties (and if so, with whom).
A personal privacy dashboard clearly shows to the users which data are
collected, how they are processed, for which purpose, and with whom
they have been shared. Companies like Google have implemented such
privacy dashboards. Make sure the access to this dashboard is tightly
secured!
Apple’s iOS shows a notification icon in the status bar whenever an application accesses the location services. This is an example of an ‘ambient
notification’: the user is informed in a subtle, non-invasive, way about the
use of his personal data.
1