3 Minimise
Limit as much as possible the processing of personal data.
The most obvious strategy to protect privacy is to minimise the collection of personal data. Nothing can go wrong with data you do not collect:
they cannot be abused, they cannot be misused, or get leaked accidentally.
Think carefully about the personal data you really need. Sometimes a radically different approach may lead to a design that requires significantly
less data, or may require no personal data at all.
3.1 Tactics
Minimisation of personal data can be achieved by collecting data of less
people, or collecting less data of people. Several different tactics are
applicable.
Select Select only relevant people and relevant attributes. Determine beforehand which people and which attributes are relevant, and process only that data. Process only incoming data that satisfies the
selection criteria. Be conservative when establishing the selection
criteria: only select what is strictly necessary. Use a white-list.
Exclude Exclude people or attributes in advance. Determine beforehand
which people or attributes are irrelevant. Do not process that data
or immediately throw it away if you happen to receive it. Be liberal
in grounds for exclusion: exclude as much as possible, unless you
are certain, and can justify, that you need it. Use a black-list.
Strip Remove (partial) data as soon as it is no longer necessary. Determine beforehand the time you need a particular data item, and ensure it gets automatically deleted as soon as this time expires. If
the data item is part of a larger data record, update the field to a
default value indicating it is unspecified. Changes in organisation,
processes or services may render certain data items irrelevant before their expiry time. Prune them.
Destroy Completely remove personal data as soon as they are no longer
relevant. Ensure that the data cannot be recovered, even in unforeseen ways. Do not rely on logical removal strategies, that only block
5
the access to the data, but leave (traces of) the data still accessible
to skilful attackers. Remove data from backups as well, and use
secure ways to erase data from hard disks.
Considering minimisation forces you to think carefully about the fundamental values of your organisation and the core business you are in. “A
cobbler should stick to his last”: if you are not in the primary business of
profiling your customers for say advertising purposes, you should stay
away from that. Minimisation forces you to be specific about your purposes; don’t be tempted to phrase them broadly.
In 2014 ING, a large Dutch bank, decided to offer third parties
the opportunity to reach its bank account holders with targeted
advertising, based on their transaction histories. This caused
an uproar, and the bank quickly backtracked. ING customers
considered this a huge breach of trust: financial transactions
are quite sensitive, especially in the Netherlands where people do not easily share their financial situation or even their
salaries.
3.2 Examples
Exclusion or selection of data is not only relevant when collecting information, or when personal data is obtained in another way, but also when
using already collected data. Ensure that internal processes and applications only use the personal data that are truly relevant. Ensure that
only relevant data is shared with third parties. And take care when the
processing of personal data creates new personal data: select or exclude
also in this case the new data that are truly (not) necessary.
Data mining, deep learning and Big Data create new insights.
Select only the insights that are relevant. Throw the others
away, and do not keep them because “it doesn’t hurt to try”: it
sometimes does hurt.
In other words, also when using, sharing, analysing and enriching data
one has to consider ways to minimise the final set of personal data retained.
6
The difference between stripping and destroying data is subtle: stripping
happens in the application layer, while destroying focuses on the physical
storage layer.
There are tried-and-tested methods to truly erase and destroy data from
hard drives (for example by writing random data several times to each
of the sectors involved). An efficient method of destroying backups is
by encrypting the data before backing it up. By associating certain keys
with particular retention periods, all data for a particular data can be
destroyed by simply destroying the associated key.
A radically different system architecture may result in a much more privacy-friendly system. Consider for example a system for paying fees on
toll roads. One approach would be to uniquely identify each passing
car at each entrance and exit of the toll road. This would provide the
operator with detailed information about everybody’s driving habits: a
huge breach of privacy. Another approach would be to install a small box
in each car that automatically deducts the required fee from an associated
account.