4 Separate
Separate the processing of personal data as much as
possible.
Another important strategy is to (logically or physically) separate the processing of personal data. This makes it harder to combine or correlate
data. By processing personal data from different contexts, the risk that
data from one context becomes known in another context is reduced. Especially when the separation is physical. Hence separation implements
contextual integrity.
4.1 Tactics
The following two tactics help implement the separate strategy.
Isolate Collect and process personal data in different databases or applications. These databases or applications are either logically separated, or actually run on different (yet still centrally located or
controlled) hardware. Ensure that the logical separation is tightly
enforced.
Distribute Distribute the collection and processing of personal data over
different physical locations using databases and systems that are
not under the control of a single entity. Use the equipment (PC,
laptop, smartphone) of the data subject himself as much as possible, and use central components as little as possible. Use decentralised or even distributed system architectures instead of centralised ones.
4.2 Examples
A social network allows people to share status updates and pictures with
friends and acquaintances. Current social networks (such as Twitter or
Facebook) are centralised architectures: the platform sees everything that
its users share with each other. That also determines the (tremendous)
value of these social networks, and also underlies the business models
8
of these networks. A privacy-friendly version of such a social network
would allow its users to store all updates and pictures locally on their
own devices (e.g their smartphones) and would share that information
directly with their friends and acquaintances in a peer-to-peer fashion.
In this case no data is stored or processed by a centralised component at
all.
In general peer-to-peer networks or distributed algorithms could be used
instead of centralised approaches, to improve privacy protection.
One small example to further illustrate this idea is the historical use of a passbook to record bank deposits or withdrawals,
back in the days when people did not have bank accounts and
wages were paid in cash. The passbook served as a local copy
of all transactions, owned and controlled by the holder. Strictly
speaking only the passbook itself could have served as the authentic record, alleviating the bank of the need to maintain
any information about the ‘account’ and its holder. (In practice banks would have kept a record too to prevent fraud.)
Apple’s iOS 10 allows users to group photos based on the people in them.
This uses facial recognition software. In iOS 10 this software runs locally
in the user’s phone. The photos are therefore not sent to a central server
for analysis.
An extremely privacy-friendly way of processing data in a distributed
fashion is the use of secure multiparty computation. With this technology
an arbitrary function over private inputs distributed over many different
devices can be computed without these inputs ever leaving the devices.
This technique has been used in Denmark to perform secure and privacyfriendly auctions. Every bid was secret, except the largest: that one could
be determined.
